# Questions
1. Compute the solutions for simulations with 3 jobs and random seeds of 1, 2, and 3.
    1. Jobs run in this order: 2, 0, 1, 2, 2, 2, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1
    2. Jobs run in this order: 2, 0, 0, 2, 0, 1, 0, 2, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 2, 1, 1, 1, 2, 1, 1, 2
    3. Jobs run in this order: 1, 1, 0, 1, 0, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2

2. Now run with two specific jobs: each of length 10, but one (job 0) with just 1 ticket and the other (job1) with 100(e.g.,-l 10:1,10:100). What happens when the number of tickets is so imbalanced? Will job 0 ever run before job 1 completes? How often? In general, what does such a ticket imbalance do to the behavior of lottery scheduling?
    - job 0 has a 1/101 chance (< 1%) of running before job 1, so the latter is all but guaranteed to complete before the former. 

3. When running with two jobs of length 100 and equal ticket allocations of 100 (-l 100:100,100:100), how unfair is the scheduler? Run with some different random seeds to determine the (probabilistic) answer; let unfairness be determined by how much earlier one job finishes than the other.
    - I'd say it's quite fair. Obviously the longer the job the higher the probability of fairness over time. 

4. How does your answer to the previous question change as the quantum size (-q) gets larger?
    - this has the same effect as reducing the job length, meaning it is less reliably fair. 

5. Can you make a version of the graph that is found in the chapter? What else would be worth exploring? How would the graph look with a stride scheduler?
