# Questions
1. To start, let’s examine a simple program, “loop.s”. First, just look at the program, and see if you can understand it: `cat loop.s`.Then, run it with these arguments:
      `./x86.py -p loop.s -t 1 -i 100 -R dx`
This specifies a single thread, an interrupt every 100 instructions, and tracing of register `%dx`. Can you figure out what the value of `%dx` will be during the run? Once you have, run the same above and use the `-c` flag to check your answers; note the answers, on the left, show the value of the register (or memory value) after the instruction on the right has run.

2. Now run the same code but with these flags:
      `./x86.py -p loop.s -t 2 -i 100 -a dx=3,dx=3 -R dx`
This specifies two threads, and initializes each `%dx` register to 3. What values will `%dx` see? Run with the `-c` flag to see the answers. Does the presence of multiple threads affect anything about your calculations? Is there a race condition in this code?
    - Because the interrupt frequency is set to 100 there is no chance for the threads time-slice, and enter a race condition. 

3. Now run the following:
      `./x86.py -p loop.s -t 2 -i 3 -r -a dx=3,dx=3 -R dx`
This makes the interrupt interval quite small and random; use different seeds with `-s` to see different interleavings. Does the frequency of interruption change anything about this program?
    - Threads have their own stack, so while execution interleaves there is no race condition possible. We need global/shared data for that to occur. 

4. Next we’ll examine a different program (`looping-race-nolock.s`). This program accesses a shared variable located at memory address 2000; we’ll call this variable x for simplicity. Run it with a single thread and make sure you understand what it does, like this:
    `./x86.py -p looping-race-nolock.s -t 1 -M 2000`
What value is found in x (i.e., at memory address 2000) throughout the run? Use `-c` to check your answer.
    - `0` changing to `1` after the `add` instruction. 

5. Now run with multiple iterations and threads:
    `./x86.py -p looping-race-nolock.s -t 2 -a bx=3 -M 2000`
Do you understand why the code in each thread loops three times? What will the final value of x be?
    - It loops 3 times because we set `%bx` to 3, and the code loops back to `.top` only if `%bx > 0`.
    - 6. There's no race condition here, because the loops don't run long enough for the threads to interleave execution. 

6. Now run with random interrupt intervals:
    `./x86.py -p looping-race-nolock.s -t 2 -M 2000 -i 4 -r -s 0`
Then change the random seed, setting -s 1, then -s 2, etc. Can you tell, just by looking at the thread interleaving, what the final value of x will be? Does the exact location of the interrupt matter? Where can it safely occur? Where does an interrupt cause trouble? In other words, where is the critical section exactly?
    - The critical section is here:

```
    1000 mov 2000, %ax
    1001 add $1, %ax
    1002 mov %ax, 2000
```
    - In the simulated environment, where we can see the execution order, you can tell what the final result will be. The in a system like this in the real world the results would be non-deterministic.

7. Now use a fixed interrupt interval to explore the program further. Run:
    `./x86.py -p looping-race-nolock.s -a bx=1 -t 2 -M 2000 -i 1`
See if you can guess what the final value of the shared variable x will be. What about when you change `-i 2`, `-i 3`, etc.? For which interrupt intervals does the program give the “correct” final answer?
    - With `-i 1` we have a race condition. In the end `x == 1`, where what we wanted was `x == 2`.
    - The same is true for `-i 2`, whereas `-i 3` makes the time slice long enough that the critical section of each thread is executed before switching, so the result is as we would want. 

8. Now run the same code for more loops (e.g.,set `-a bx=100`). What interrupt intervals, set with the `-i` flag, lead to a “correct” outcome? Which intervals lead to surprising results?
    - Any multiple of 3 gets a correct result, not surprisingly because the critical seciton of code is 3 instructions, and the remainder of the loop is also 3 instructions, so the transaction is always atomic. 
    - `-i` set to both 1 and 2 result in 100. I'm not sure any of the other intervals produced particularly surprising results. 

9. We’ll examine one last program in this homework (`wait-for-me.s`). Run the code like this:
    `./x86.py -p wait-for-me.s -a ax=1,ax=0 -R ax -M 2000`
This sets the `%ax` register to 1 for thread 0, and 0 for thread 1, and watches the value of %ax and memory location 2000 throughout the run. How should the code behave? How is the value at location 2000 being used by the threads? What will its final value be?
    - Thread 1 will continuously loop/wait for the value (`1`) to be in memory address 2000, and will halt when that occurs. If Thread 0 executes first, Thread 1 will only execute the loop once. If the order of execution is reversed the loop will be executed until there's a time-slice/context switch to Thread 0(assuming no exceptions occur), and will run once more after it resumes.
    - The final value address 2000 will be 1. 

10. Now switch the inputs:
    `./x86.py -p wait-for-me.s -a ax=0,ax=1 -R ax -M 2000`
How do the threads behave? What is thread 0 doing? How would changing the interrupt interval (e.g., -i 1000, or perhaps to use random intervals) change the trace outcome? Is the program effi- ciently using the CPU?
    - It's behaving as described in my previous answer. This doesn't seem to be efficient use of the CPU. Presumably we will learn how to better have threads wait for one another in upcoming chapters :)
