# Questions

1. Our first question focuses on `main-two-cvs-while.c` (the working solution). First, study the code. Do you think you have an understanding of what should happen when you run the program?
    - Yes. This is a further fleshed out, working example of the figures from the chapter. 

2. Now run with one producer and one consumer, and have the producer produce a few values. Start with a buffer of size 1, and then increase it. How does the behavior of the code change when the buffer is larger? (or does it?) What would you predict num full to be with different buffer sizes (e.g., `-m 10`) and different numbers of produced items (e.g., `-l 100`), when you change the consumer sleep string from default (no sleep) to `-C 0,0,0,0,0,0,1`?
    - The behaviour changes in that the producer can add multiple values to the buffer (up to the length of the buffer -1, depending on context switches) before it waits, and vice versa for the consumer. 
    - My prediction for `num_full` is that it would fluctuate between `max` and `0` for smaller buffer sizes. For larger sizes it might not hit the extrema much, or at all. And that proves to be the case with `-p 1 -c 1 -m 10 -l 100 -v`
    - Assuming a buffer size > 1 and `-C 0,0,0,0,0,0,1`, the producer will fill the buffer, then the consumer will run once, and sleep for 1 second. Since there is only one empty index, the producer will run once, and until the loops are over for each they will take turns to add/remove one at a time.

3. If possible, run the code on different systems (e.g., a Mac and Linux). Do you see different behavior across these systems?
    - 

4. Let’s look at some timings of different runs. How long do you think the following execution, with one producer, three consumers, a single-entry shared buffer, and each consumer pausing at point `c3` for a second, will take?
     `prompt> ./main-two-cvs-while -p 1 -c 3 -m 1 -C 0,0,0,1,0,0,0:0,0,0,1,0,0,0:0,0,0,1,0,0,0 -l 10 -v -t`
    - 

5. Now change the size of the shared buffer to 3 (`-m 3`).Will this make any difference in the total time?
    - 

6. Now change the location of the sleep to `c6` (this models a consumer taking something off the queue and then doing something with it for a while), again using a single-entry buffer. What time do you predict in this case?
     `prompt> ./main-two-cvs-while -p 1 -c 3 -m 1 -C 0,0,0,0,0,0,1:0,0,0,0,0,0,1:0,0,0,0,0,0,1 -l 10 -v -t`
    - 

7. Finally, change the buffer size to 3 again (`-m 3`). What time do you predict now?
    - 

8. Now let’s look at `main-one-cv-while.c`. Can you configure a sleep string, assuming a single producer, one consumer, and a buffer of size 1, to cause a problem with this code?
    - 

9. Now change the number of consumers to two. Can you construct sleep strings for the producer and the consumers so as to cause a problem in the code?
    - 

10. Now examine `main-two-cvs-if.c`. Can you cause a problem to happen in this code? Again consider the case where there is only one consumer, and then the case where there is more than one.
    - 

11. Finally, examine `main-two-cvs-while-extra-unlock.c`. What problem arises when you release the lock before doing a put or a get? Can you reliably cause such a problem to happen, given the sleep strings? What bad thing can happen?
    - 
