# Questions

1. Compute the response time and turnaround time when running three jobs of length 200 with the SJF and FIFO schedulers.
> FIFO: turnaround = 400, response = 200
> SJF: turnaround = 400, response = 200

2. Now do the same but with jobs of different lengths: 200, 100, and 300.
> FIFO: turnaround = 366.6, response = 166.6
> SJF: turnaround = 333.3, response = 133.3

3. Now do the same, but also with the RR scheduler and a time-slice of 1.
> RR: turnaround = 466.6, response = 2

    * the correct response is 1. ((0 + 1 + 2) / 3)

4. For what types of workloads does SJF deliver the same turnaround times as FIFO?
> For those where the length of the jobs are equal, or where the jobs arrive at the exact time a context switch is needed (and in the same order as in FIFO) so that the scheduler can't compare the job length. 

5. For what types of work loads and quantum lengths does SJF deliver the same response times as RR?
> Where the quantum length for RR is equal to the length of each job.

6. What happens to response time with SJF as job lengths increase? Can you use the simulator to demonstrate the trend?
> The response time increases. Compare the following simulations: `./scheduler.py -l 20,20,20 -p SJF -c`, `./scheduler.py -l 21,21,21 -p SJF -c`, `./scheduler.py -l 22,22,22 -p SJF -c`

7. What happens to response time with RR as quantum lengths increase? Can you write an equation that gives the worst-case response time, given N jobs?
> The response time increases. `worse_case_response = sum(i*quantum_length for i in range(0, N)) / N` 
